Google just made Nano Banana 10 times
more powerful overnight. The original
Nano Banana literally changed how we
edit images with AI, but this new
version is on a completely different
level. It's called Nanobanana Pro, and
it's powered by Google's new Gemini 3
model. And what this means is there are
now capabilities that simply didn't
exist before. Things that open up real
professional use cases that the first
version couldn't handle. And in this
video, I'm going to show you the four
big improvements of this new model
compared to the old Nano Banana and the
right way to access it because how you
access it actually matters. Let's get
into it. So, there's four major
improvements with Nano Banana Pro. I'm
going to walk you through each one and
show you exactly what they mean for your
business. Let's start with the one that
honestly had me the most excited. And
the first major improvement is that we
can finally add perfect text to our
images. And this is something that the
old model really struggled with. So, I
was actually looking back through my old
Gemini chats here when I was testing out
the first nano banana model. I tried
uploading one of our YouTube thumbnails
and asked it to simply change the text.
So, from save hours to chat GBT agent,
you can see it creates a model and
confidently changes the text. But here,
clearly chat GBT is spelled wrong. And
this thing happened over and over again
with the first nano banana model. it
would confidently add text to the
images, but quite often it would just
add words that did not make any sense.
Now, if we take a look at this example
of an image created with the new Nano
Banana Pro model, and hands off to the
Google team for coming up with quite a
clever example here, one of the most
notoriously difficult phrases to say,
how much wood would a woodchuck chuck if
a woodchuck could chuck wood? And here
they've added the prompt to create an
image showing the phrase made out of
wood chucked by a woodchuck. And what's
insane here is first of all, not like
the previous example, it didn't make a
single spelling mistake and leave out
any letters. But also, this isn't even
just using a standard font. This is
actually creating letters out of an
object, which is absolutely nuts. And
this looks to be also working so much
better when updating text of an already
existing image. So here I tried with the
Hollywood sign saying replace the text
with builder club, which is the
conference that we run here in Berlin.
And you can see that it also absolutely
nailed it. It kept the rest of the scene
identical, the clouds, the hills, and
just updated the letters. And even here,
it had to add additional letters in
because there's more letters in Builder
Club than in Hollywood. But it did this
without a problem whatsoever. So, what
does this unlock for your business?
Social media graphics, ad mockups,
YouTube thumbnails, all with perfect
text. You want to test five different
headlines for an ad? Just ask it to
update the text. No jumping into
Photoshop or bothering your designer for
quick iterations. But here's where
things get even more interesting. The
second major improvement is you can now
reference even more images with your
prompts to Nano Banana. Let me show you
what I mean. So, specifically, this new
model can handle us uploading up to 14
images that we reference in our prompt.
So, here we have 14 of these uh fluffy
Pixar like uh characters. And there was
the prompt, a medium shot of the 14
fluffy characters sitting squeezed
together side by side on a worn beige
fabric sofa. and on the floor. It
continues on there, but you can see that
this has absolutely nailed all of those
14 characters, keeping them consistent,
these 14 objects or input images, and
blended them all into one image. In the
previous model, it was sort of saying
that up to like three reference images
was giving okay results, but now they've
really doubled down on this. So, here's
how it applies to business. Think about
complex marketing scenes. Maybe you need
an image with your product, a person
using it, a lifestyle background, some
decorative elements. That's five or six
completely different elements that all
need to work together. Before you would
need a professional photographer, and a
full production setup. Now you can
upload all of those separate elements,
and Nano Banana Pro can combine them all
into one scene. The third major upgrade
is that Nano Banana Pro can now connect
directly to Google search and pull in
information while it's generating your
image. And this is huge for one specific
use case, infographics. So check this
out. Someone just uploaded an image of a
plant and gave the prompt to create an
infographic about this plant focusing on
interesting information. Nano Banana Pro
then searched the web and actually found
the exact name of this plant, string of
turtles, even the scientific name. found
out that it was native to Ecuador and
gave the full care instructions,
creating a factually accurate
infographic with all the text in the
right place that actually looks pretty
good. Even more impressive is this
example here, which is a prompt that
combines both searching the internet to
create an infographic, but also gives
the style of how the infographic should
be created. So, here created DIY
infographic with flat lay photography.
This one was an infographic for
explaining how solar energy works. They
asked the model to reference this
Wikipedia page and then the result is a
infographic that a looks very very
professional is factually sound and all
of the text is written the exact correct
way. So why is this a big deal? Well,
infographics used to require a lot of
time to produce because you needed to do
both the research and then actually
design the thing. Now you can create
professional accurate infographics in
seconds. And because it's grounded in
real search results, you're getting
credible content that you can actually
use. Which brings us to the final
upgrade, and this is what makes all of
this actually practical. Now, the fourth
improvement, and this one is massive, is
image quality. The old Nano Banana was
stuck at such a low resolution that for
most business use cases, it made it
impossible to use. Nano Banana Pro
changes that completely. You now get
native 4K resolution, four times sharper
than before. And you can choose any
aspect ratio. 16x9 for YouTube
thumbnails, 9x6 for Instagram stories,
1x1 for LinkedIn, pretty much any size
you need, which means the images you
create are actually ready to use.
They're crisp, they're professional, and
they're platform ready. So, those are
the four major upgrades. Perfect text
combining up to 14 images, Google search
grounding, and professional 4K quality
in any aspect ratio. But now the
important part, how you access this
actually matters. So you can already
access this new model in the Gemini app,
gemini.google.com.
We can see the banner here. Nano Banana
Pro is now available on Gemini 3 Pro.
And I can just click try it. I believe
this is already uh available for
everyone for free. I'm on a business
plan, but let me know in the comments if
this is also available for free users. I
do believe it is. And here when I
clicked that uh they just gave me a um
like let's say a default prompt. create
a comic with the title getting started
with Nano Banana Pro. This is a a
probably a good way for them to show
users what is actually possible with
this new model.
And here we can see it has flawlessly
created this getting started with Nano
Banana Pro uh comic. So now everyone
knows how to actually use this thing
inside Gemini. What I do want to point
out here, so I'll just remove this. Um
let me start a new chat. To access this
again, we can go into tools here and
create an image. This enables this Nano
Banana Pro model if you're using the uh
Gemini 3 Pro model. Now, what you'll
notice here is you don't get any other
options in terms of like aspect ratio or
resolution. And for that, we want to
head to the other place where we can
access this model and that's Google AI
Studio. So, over in Google AI Studio, a
studio.google.com.
Um depending on where you land you might
see a different first interface but what
you want to do is on the left hand side
if you head to playground and then here
I can select images and then we see here
Nano Banana Pro new so I can just click
on that one and now we get into the area
where we can start interacting with
Nanobanana Pro but something different
about it right now I don't know if this
will always be the case right now to use
this new Nano Banana Pro model in AI
Studio you do need to link your API key
which means every time you use this
model you'll be consuming credits from
your account. So, let me go and link my
API key. And this is only available if
you do have paid billing set up. So,
we've already got a paid project here.
I'm just going to select my paid project
and select one of my API keys and hit
select key. And then we can actually get
started with prompting. And here you'll
see on the right hand side now we get
access to those additional features. So,
I can select all of the different aspect
ratios and we can select 1K, 2K, or 4K.
So, let's go ahead and try that exact
same prompt that did not work in the old
Nano Banana uh model. Keep the style of
this YouTube thumbnail exactly the same,
but change the title text from save
hours to chat GBT agent. I'm going to
upload that uh thumbnail.
And YouTube thumbnails of course are in
16x9 and I want this in 4K quality and I
don't need this one grounded with Google
search. So we can really see all the
different options are available to us
here in AI studio. But as I said this is
a paid feature and you'll need to
connect your API key. So let me run this
one
and perfect. Here is our image in 4K.
Let me view the full image. This is
looking spoton. Obviously the tea is in
chat GBT so we have done it. Well done,
Nano Banana Pro. And here's really why
it matters where you're using this
model. Of course, I would not be able to
get this quality when using the Gemini
app. But also, every image that you
create here on gemini.google.com
has this little Gemini watermark in the
bottom right, which you do not have when
using the paid version in AI Studio,
meaning you can download it in 4K in
your resolution and actually use this in
your business. So, I hope you found this
video useful and you're excited to go
and test out this new model. Now, as I
play around more with this model, I'm
going to be releasing a more in-depth
video covering the top use cases of the
new Nano Banana Pro model. If you want
to make sure you're alerted when that
video is released, make sure to
subscribe to the channel. Also, give
this video a like. It means a lot. And
we'll see you in the next